# Definition Lists
#### Stakeholders
An individual, group, or organization who may affect, be affected by, or perceive itself to be affected by a decision, activity, or outcome of a project, such as end users, end user organizations

> Note: Some stakeholders can have interests that `oppose each other` or oppose the system.
#### Users
Person who interacts with a system, product or service. Such as a bank customer who visits a branch, carries out telephone banking using a call center.
> Note: User `may not directly interacting` with the software, but they are a user of the software. User is much border than just a person that typing into the software.

#### Customers
Organization or person that receives a product or service

> Note: A customer can be internal or external to the organization. Customers are a subset of stakeholders.
#### Actors
In UML(Unified Modeling Language), someone or something `outside the system` that interacts with the system

>Note: It can be of interest to specify which actor initiates that action.

# 1.0 User Stories
User stories are often written early in the software development process. The idea is to capture `raw` user needs. The `purpose` of a user story is articulate how a piece of work will deliver a particular value back to the customer.

> A good user story contain three elements:
> 1. `Role`: Who wants to use this feature.
> 2. `Function`: What kind of function needs to be completed.
> 3. `Value`: Why we need this function and what kind of value it brings.

### User stories are usually expressed in the following format:
``` Py
As a [role]
I want [functionality]
So that [business value]
# As Max, I want to invite my friends, so we can enjoy this service together.
```

## Benefits of User Stories
* `Stories keep the focus on the user` - A To Do list keeps the team focused on tasks that need checked off, but a collection of stories keeps the team focused on solving problems for real users.
  
* `Stories enable collaboration`. With the end goal defined, the team can work together to decide how best to serve the user and meet that goal.
  
* `Stories drive creative solutions`. Stories encourage the team to think critically and creatively about how to best solve for an end goal.
  
* `Stories create momentum`. With each passing story the development team enjoys a small challenges and a small win, driving momentum.

## How to write good User Stories
A user stories are about raw user needs. It’s something that the user needs to do in her day-to-day job. Even if you never build any software for her, then that need will still exist!

A good story should have the following six characteristics:
* `Independent` - Each user story should be independent of each other.
* `Negotiable` - Brief description of the requirements. It’s not appropriate to include too much detail at the beginning, as it will narrow down users user's need while we communucate with them.
* `Valuable` - Every story must be valuable to the customer.
* `Estimable` - A story can be estimate in term of time, cost, and capabilities.
* `Small` - A good user story should be short, not too long and `easy for users to read`.
* `Testable` - User stories should be `specific` and testable. If the user story is too vague, there is no `standard` to follow when testing.
# User Case 
User case is designed after User Stories were confirmed. It is an abstraction that describes all possible scenarios involving the described functionality focus is on completeness. 

The `Unified Modelling Language` has `use case diagram` and `use case`