# Requirement Elicitation

## What is Requirements Elicitation?
Requirements Elicitation is a process involve with stakeholders, allow engineering discover, reveal, articulate and understand their requirements.

## Requirements vs Specifications
Requirements got misused in may area. Requirment come from required which means nonnegotiable. But we actually negotiate requirements back and forth.

## Project Scope
A critical element of requirements elicitation is informing the `project scope`. Project scope  involves providing a description of the software to be built and its purpose and p rioritizing the deliverables to ensure the customer’s most important business needs are satisfied first.

## Software Scope
The first activity for software project management is determining software scope. Software scope describes the data and control to be `processed`, `function`, `performance`, `constraints`, `interfaces`, and `reliability`.


Scope is determined by answering the following questions:
* `Context`
  * What constraints are imposed as a result of the context?
* `Information objectives`
  * What data objects are required for input?
* `Function and performance`
  * Are any special performance characteristics to be addressed?

## Requirements Sources

### Goals
The term `goal` refers to the overall, high-level objectives of the software. Goals provide the motivation for the software but are often vaguely formulated. 

Goals are optative (express a wish) rather than indicative (stating a thing as fact). E.g.
* Serve more passengers
* Acceleration command is delivered on time

### Domain knowledge
The software engineer needs to acquire or have available knowledge about the application domain. Domain knowledge provides the background against which all elicited requirements knowledge must be set in order to understand it.

### Stakeholders
Many software has proved unsatisfactory because it focused one group of stakeholders at the expense of others. Hence, the software is difficult to use, or subverts the cultural or political structures of the customer organization.

The software engineer needs to identify, represent, and manage the `viewpoints` of many different types of stakeholders. If requirement conflicts occure, negotiation can be applied.

### Business Rules
These are statements that define or constrain some aspect of the structure or the behavior of the business itself.

### Operational environment
Requirements will be derived from the environment in which the software will be executed. 

### Organizational environment
Software is often required to support a business process, the selection of which may be conditioned by the structure, culture, and internal politics of the organization.

Example: Software help accountant's job, but the software should not force unplanned change on the business process


## Approches to Elicitate Requirements

### Communication
Elicitation is fundamentally a human activity and is where the stakeholders are identified and relationships established between the development team and the custom. 

One of the fundamental principles of a good requirements elicitation process is that of effective communication between the various stakeholders.

Requirements specialists `mediate` between the domain of the software users (and other stakeholders) and the technical world of the software engineer.

### Interviews 
A formal planned communication with stakeholders, that systematic attempt to collect information from a person.

Interviewing success depends on ability to identify:
1. work flows
2. factors that influence the operations of system
3. the elements (documents, procedures, policies, etc.) that make up systems. 

5 Steps of the Interview Process
1. Preparing for the interview
2. Planning and scheduling the interview
3. Opening and closing the interview
4. Conducting the interview
5. Following up for clarification 

### Facilitated meetings
Bring a group og people to meet together, so is can bring more insight into their software requirements than by working individually.

Advantages:
1. Brainstorm and refine ideas that may be difficult to bring to the surface using interviews
2. conflicting requirements surface early on in a way that lets the stakeholders recognize where these occur. 
3. may result in a richer and more consistent set of requirements than might otherwise be achievable. 

Disadvantage:
1. Meetings need to be handled carefully (hence the need for a facilitator) to avoid poor group dynamics
2. Meetings are time consuming

### Brainstorming
Allows people to suggest and explore ideas in an atmosphere free of criticism or judgement

`Generation Phase`: participants encouraged to offer as many ideas as possible without discussion of the merits of ideas

`Consolidation Phase`: ideas are discussed, revised and organised

### Prototypes
You present a prototype to your stakeholders so they can see where you want to take the project and you can see how your initial ideas play out.

* `Disadvantage`: Choose implementation too early
* `Risk`: Rough prototype becomes the product

### Scenarios and Use Cases

### User Stories
 [Refer to - User Stories ](./02.UserStories.md)

###
Analyst immerses herself in the working environment where the system will be used
* Analysts observes the day-to-day work and notes the actual tasks in which participants are involved

Which discover implicit system requirements that reflect the actual rather than formal processes in which people are involved

`Advantage`:
* discovers many user tasks and business processes that are too subtle and complex for their actors to describe easily.

`Disadvantage`:
* Expensive
* Observer should be detached: end-user based, nonjudgemental so not appropriate for discovering organisational or domain requirements