# Testing requirements 

# Why do requirements need tests?

Requirements testing essential property of a software requirement, the idea is that the requirement should be possible to `validate` that the finished product satisfies it. If a requirement is `not validateable ` then this requirement is just an wish. In most cases, acceptance tests are prescribed based on how end-users typically conduct business using the system

The way to validate a requirement satisfiey stakeholders need is by testing.

For functional requirement, test is simple, as it's measureable, but for Non-functional Requirements how we able to test it.

## Test Non-functional Requirements
`Performance Speed`
* Number of processed transactions per second
* User/event response time
* Screen refresh time

Example: The system shall respond to user requests in < 1 second when the system is running at normal user load of <100 concurrent users.

A test case for this requiement

    Test: Write a script to run 100 common user requests and launch this script 99 times (worst case). Measure the total response time for each request (or all) and test 100 requests can be served in <100 seconds.

`Reliability`
* Mean time to failure
* Probability of unavailability
* Rate of failure occurrence

Example: The system shall be available to users for at least 1400 minutes in any 24 hour period.

A test case for this requiement

    Write a script to run continuous “normal” interactions and run it for a long term. Record any time the system is not available. Note these types of requirements are hard to test effectively.

Other requirements - 

`Robustness`
* Time to re-start after system failure
* Percentage of events causing failure
* Probability of data corruption on failure

`Integrity`
* Maximum permitted data loss after system failure

`Ease of Use`
* Training time taken to learn 75% of user facilities
* Average number of errors made by users in a given time period * Numberofhelpframes

`Portability`
* Percentageoftarget-dependentstatements * Numberoftargetsystems

# Hard-to-test requirements
`System requirements` - Requirements which apply to the system as a whole.

`Exclusive requirements` - Requirements which exclude specific behaviour.

    For example, a requirement may state that system failures must never corrupt the system database.

`Some non-functional requirements` - Some non-functional requirements, such as reliability requirements, can only be tested with a large test set.
