# Event-driven systems
The system waits for the user actions and other events, then calls methods of appropriate objects to handle those events.
* Examples of event-driven systems are:
  * Network servers
    - these wait for connections or other events
  * Graphical user interface
  * 
### `Events`
An event is just a piece of data that acts as a signal to another object. When events are sent, we usually refer to this as `firing` the event.

### `Listeners`
A listener object performs specified actions in response to an event.
* Multiple listeners can respond to one event
* One listener can respond to multiple sorts of events
* Typically, a listener object will tell the framework that it is `subscribing` to listen for some particular set of events.

### `Observer pattern`
In this case the listeners, do not directly observe the objects that generate events. 

The listeners observe the event framework, and the event framework observes the objects that `generates events`.

`Generators` and `listeners` are somewhat decoupled from each other. This makes it easier to change system behaviour in the future.

# Event-driven systems


## Event-driven programming
Event-driven programming introduces a different sort of flow of control to what you may be used to.

Events can occur at unpredictable times.
* Typically, the system will wait for an event. Then call the appropriate method in your program.

## Event-driven architecture
A typical architecure for event-driven systems is the `Observe and React` architecture. A typical example is `MVC`.