# Design documentation

## Purpose of design documentation
1. Help new customers understanding of the system, its architecture, and design choices made
2. Ensure team has a shared understanding of decisions made
3. Avoid duplicate research or work on a system

## Audience
Design documentation records the design choices you made, and reasons for them. It records major choices made about the architecture of the system, and may contain design models.

It is primarily written for architects, developers and maintainers.

Other sorts of documentation you may encounter, with other audiences:
* `User documentation`. Written for end users and/or system administrators.
* `API documentation`. Written for internal, and possibly external, developers.
* `Cookbooks/examples`. Working code examples, written for developers

## Bad design documentation
* Never used
  * consumed time and effort on the part of the people who wrote it, but was never used
* Contradictory
  * different portions of the documentation say contradictory things
* Badly written/unclear
  * It is difficult for readers to understand what is meant
* Hard to navigate
* Out of date


## Tips to avoid bas design documentation
1. Navigation
   1. A table of contents
   2. An index or search facility
   3. A glossary and/or list of synonyms – especially if the terminology you are using is not widely known, or is ambiguous
2. Current - Out of date
   1. Use version to manage documentation
3. Completeness
   1. Avoid Incomplete/too little detail
   2. Avoid Too much detail
   3. Avoid Never used documentation
4. Consistency
   1. each document has a clear purpose
   2. the documents don’t overlap with other documents in their purpose or scope
   3. you only record information that is likely to be needed
5. Clarity and writing quality

# Rationale
Rationale is the justification on decisions, by critical in two areas:
1. Decision making
2. Knowledge capture

Rationale is important when designing or updating the system and when introducing new staff.

Advantage:
* Improve maintenance support
  * Provide maintainers with design context
* Improve learning
  * New staff can learn the design by replaying the decisions that produced it
* Improve analysis and design
  * Avoid duplicate evaluation of poor alternatives
  * Make consistent and explicit trade-offs

## Rationale activities
* `Issues` that were addressed
* Alternative `proposals` which were considered,
* Decisions made for resolution of the issues,
* `Criteria` used to guide decisions and
* Arguments developers went through to reach a decision

### `Issues`
* Each decision corresponds to an issue that needs to be solved.

### `Proposals / Alternatives`
* Possible solutions that could address the issue under consideration. Includes alternatives that were explored but discarded.

### `Criteria`
* Desirable qualities that the selected solution should satisfy.
* For example
  * Requirements analysis criteria include usability, number of input errors per day
  * Design criteria include reliability, response time
  * Project management criteria include trade-offs such as timely delivery vs quality

### `Arguments`
The discussions which took place in decision making as developers discover issues, try solutions, and argue their relative benefits.

### `Resolution`
The decision taken to resolve an issue. An alternative is selected which satisfies the criteria, supported by arguments for that decision.

# Levels of rationale
* No rationale captured
* Rationale reconstruction - Rationale is documented in a document justifying the final design
* Rationale capture - documented during design as it is developed
* Rationale integration - Rationale drives the design

# Agile development and documentation
* Individuals and interactions > processes and tools 
* Working software             > comprehensive documentation
* Customer collaboration       > contract negotiation
* Responding to change         > following a plan


