# Software architecture

## Why study software architecture?
Software generally have common architecture, and by recognise common architectures, can help us to build new systems as variations on existing ones.

In software design, getting the right architecture is often crucial to the success of a software development. And by understanding multiple architecture can provide reasoning choices among design alternatives.

Architectural system representation is often essential to analysis and description of high level properties of a complex system

## Pipe and Filter Architecture structural pattern
Contain:
* filter (component)
  * reads streams of data as inputs
  * perfrom data transformation
  * Output streams
* connecters (pipes)
  * transmit outputs of one filter to inputs of another

Pipe and filter are computation is incremental that `Output begins before all inputs are consumed`.

#### Essential Invariants:
1. filter must be independent entities
2. filter specifications can
   * restrict what appears on the input pipes or
   * make guarantees about what appears on the output pipes
3. filters do not know the each other, and what others do.

### Pipe and Filter major specializations
* Pipeline
  * topology restricted to linear sequences of filters i.e. no loops
* Bounded Pipes
  * restrict the amount of data that can reside on a pipe
* Typed Pipes
  * data passed between 2 filters must have a well defined type

### Advantages
* reuse 
* understanding
* maintenance and enhancement
* good for analysis
* naturally supports concurrency

### Disadvantages
* each filter must provide a complete transformation of input data to output data
* Not good at handling interactive applications. I.e. Interface update
* loss of overall performance
* filters haveto parse and unparse the data each time.

## Repository architecture
Subsystems access and modify data from a single data structure, such as databases. In this architecture each subsystems are loosely coupled.


In repository architecture Control flow is dictated by central repository or by the subsystems. 

## Layering architecture - structure

## Client and Server architecture
