# Non-OO design

# Data-Oriented Design (DOD)
Data-Oriented Design is that it is about organizing your data for efficient processing.

### Example - draw a ball:
Object Oriented Approach
```Java
class Ball {
    Point  position;
    Color  color;
    double radius;

    void draw();
};
```
Data-Oriented Approach

```Java
class Balls {
    vector<Point>  position;
    vector<Color>  color;
    vector<double> radius;

    void draw();
};
```

### Why use thid design
Data stored together, so better performance, as large contiguous chunks of memory to operate efficiently - `CUP Need to search`. 

We can cache subset of data that is importance, rather than store all togher

# Event-Oriented Design
Event-Oriented Design is that even is each subsystem handle similar type of events and subsystems are event-handlers. 

Disvantage is Subsystems don’t know if or when events will be handled.

# Structured design

### `functional design`
each subsystem captures one of the functions of the system

### `top-down design`
1. start with black boxes and their inputs and outputs
2. then divide each box into internal input-output boxes

# Formal methods
Software specifications are meticulously transformed into mathematical statements.

Generally used for safty critical software.

# Agile methods
Agile methods rely on an iterative approach to software specifications, development and delivery. They are designed for business applications where the system requirements usually `change rapidly`.

## Principles of agile methods
* Customer involvement
* Incremental delivery
* People, not process
* Embrace change
* Maintain simplicity

## Advantages of agile methods
* Better customer satisfaction by the rapid and continuous delivery of software.
* People and interactions are emphasized rather than process and tools. Customers, developers and testers constantly interact with each other.
* The close interaction between customer and software developer allows continuous attention to technical excellence and good design.
* Software development is able to adapt to changing circumstances. Even late changes in requirements are welcomed.

## Disadvantages of agile methods
* The project can easily get taken off track if the customer representative is not clear what final outcome that they want.
* Lack of emphasis on necessary designing and documentation.
* In case of some software deliverables, especially the large ones, it is difficult to assess the effort required at the beginning of the software development life cycle.

# Subsets of Agile 
Iterative approach to software specifications, development and delivery. Many variants: Extreme, Scrum, Crystal Clear, Adaptive SW Development, Feature-driven, Test-driven。

### `Extreme Programming`
* emphasizes on customer satisfaction
* improves software project on 5 essential ways: communication, simplicity, feedback, respect, and courage
* advocates frequent “releases” in short development cycles

### `Scrum`




