# Value Comparers
In EF Core, a value comparer is a component that is used to compare and equate values of properties in entities during various operations. EF core use `Valuer comparers` to do `Change tracking`.

By default, EF Core uses built-in value comparers that perform standard equality comparisons. But we can customize the comparison logic by implementing your own value comparers (Sometimes built-in doesn't work appropriately).
```csharp
public class Entity
{
    public int Id; 
    public List<int> ListInts { get; set; }
}

public void Configure(EntityTypeBuilder<Entity> builder)
{
    builder.Property(b => b.ListInts).HasConversion(
        ListInts => JsonSerializer.Serialize(ListInts, (JsonSerializerOptions)null),
        ListInts => JsonSerializer.Deserialize<List<int>>(ListInts, (JsonSerializerOptions)null),
        new ValueComparer<List<int>>
        (
            // Equals Expression,
            (ListInts1, ListInts2) => ListInts1.SequenceEqual(ListInts2),

            // Hash Code Expression
            ListInts => ListInts.Aggregate(0, (ListInts, v) => HashCode.Combine(ListInts, v.GetHashCode())),

            // Snapshot Expression
            c => c.ToList()
        )
    );
}
```

## Shallow comparison
Shallow comparison involves comparing objects based on their references or shallow copies of their data. In a shallow comparison, only the top-level properties or references of an object are compared. If two objects have the same reference or if their top-level properties have the same values, they are considered equal.

For example, in a shallow comparison of two objects, if their references point to the same memory location or if their properties have the same values, they are considered equal. However, if the objects contain nested objects or collections, those nested objects or collections are not compared in a shallow comparison.

Shallow comparison is relatively fast and straightforward, but it may not capture the complete state of complex objects or data structures. It does not consider the internal state or equality of nested objects or collections.

## Deep comparison
Deep comparison, on the other hand, involves recursively comparing the entire structure and contents of objects, including their nested objects and collections. It traverses the entire object graph, ensuring that every property or element is compared for equality.

In a deep comparison, each property or element of the objects is compared individually. If the properties or elements of the objects have the same values, the objects are considered equal. This comparison includes checking the equality of nested objects or collections, ensuring that the entire state of the objects is considered.

Deep comparison provides a more comprehensive assessment of object equality but can be more complex and computationally expensive, especially for large or deeply nested data structures.
