# Documenting code
Most programming languages provide a way to documenting the specification of `unit` inline. For example:
* Java provides the Javadoc tool
* Python provides the Pydoc tool

And for some language that don't have 

# APIs - Application Programming Interface

For all classes and methods from a module, that allow end-user to access it functionality externally the it's called the API of the module

The name derives from the idea that if we write a re-usable component of some sort (like a library), then other developers will want to use this in their application programming, and we should document the public interface to that component.

We can think of the API for a function as constituting a contract between the developer of the function.

> Pass me arguments which meet the following criteria, I promise to do the following thing - return some sort of value, or to cause some sort
of `side effect`.

A `side effect` is anything the function does to alter the current or subsequent behaviour of the system or its interaction with external systems, other than returning a value.

## APIs – specification vs implementation
The API documentation `does not normally` say how the function is to be `implemented` – just what its return value and effects are. But some time it will specify computational cost(*log(n)*)

This means that if the library developer decides to reimplement the function in another way (for instance, to improve efficiency), they can, without changing the API.

## What should go in the API documentation?
`Preconditions` – any conditions which should be satisfied by the parameters or the system state when the function is called.

`Postconditions` – the return value of the function, and any changes the function makes to the system state

    Often also document what will happen if the preconditions aren’t satisfied:in many languages, this will typically be an exception being thrown.

# Unit testing
Unit tests should focus on one tiny bit of functionality, and attempt to find any deviations from expected behaviour.

Properties:
1. Quick to run - run tests whenever changes are made to the code, so need to be quick.
2. Independent of other tests - tests should not rely on other, even particular tests having been run before them.
3. Run frequently - We want to identify faults as early as possible!

## Unit testing – Junit Java example
```Java
import static org.junit.Assert.assertEquals;
import org.junit.Test;

public class Test {
    @Test
    public void evaluatesExpression() {
        Module module = new Module();
        int sum = module.run(...);
        assertEquals(6, sum);
    }
}
```

# Unit-testing terminology

* `Test case` - The basic unit of testing, which checks the behaviour of code in response to a particular set of inputs.

* `Test suite` - A collection of test cases, or other test suites
* `Test runner` - A software tool which manages the execution of tests, and reports their outcome - `Junit`.
* `Test fixture` - The preparation needed to perform one or more tests

### Test fixtures
For software, we likewise may need to get the environment and conditions into a known state for testing.

Things like:
* Prepare input data(any thing not only `numbers` or `string`, `file`, `database` etc.)
* Create fake or mock objects
* Load a database with a specific, known set of data
* Create files with known contents
* ... etc

# Expected behaviour for unit testing
What sort of behaviours might we expect from code under test?
* return of a value
* alteration of state
* throwing of an exception
Basically, the same things that we would document as postconditions.

Unit testing frameworks will typically provide ways of detecting all of these, and comparing them with expected results.