# Testing automation
Test automation is the use of software (under a setting of test preconditions) to execute tests and compare actual outcomes and predicted outcomes.
1. software to control the execution of tests
2. Compare of actual outcomes to predicted outcomes, 
3. Setting up of test preconditions, and other test control and 
4. Test reporting functions

##  Why do we need Test Automation
Companies not only want to test software adequately, but also as `quickly` and `thoroughly` as possible. To accomplish this goal, organizations are turning to automated testing
* To increase the test coverage 
* Reduces the need for manual testing, as manual testing is `error prone` and `time consuming` process
* Discovers defects manual testing cannot expose

Running the tests again and again gives us the confidence that the new work we added to the system did not break the code that used to work and also to make sure that the changes we introduced are working. 

Automating also reduces the time taken for regression testing and automated unit test suite helps find the problems at an earlier stage and solve them.

## Test Automation Using Testing frameworks
A testing framework is an execution environment for automated tests. It is the overall system in which the tests will be automated.

It is defined as the set of assumptions, concepts, and practices that constitute a work platform or support for automated testing.

The Testing framework is responsible for:
*  Defining the format in which to express expectations.
*  Creating a mechanism to hook into or drive the application under test
*  Executing the tests
*  Reporting results

Properties of a testing framework:
*  It is application independent.
*  It is easy to expand, maintain and perpetu

## Tests cannot automate
* A final system test - may required physical device.
* Usability, performance - none functional requirements.
# Test Case
## Components of a Test Case
One thing all testing frameworks do is let us run test cases. We can think of a test case as the smallest possible `unit` of testing. 

```python
# function for Test case below
def sum(x, y):
    return x + y
```
Test case made up by multiple parts
* `Test values` or test case values
  * These are the inputs to the program that we supply. Such as 3 or 4
* `Expected results` or expected values
  * The values we expect to see if the program performs in accordance with specifications - In this case, the number 7

> `Test values`: input values necessary to complete some execution of the software.
> 
> `Expected results`: result to be produced iff program satisfies intended behaviour on a test case.

Sometimes, we will need to supply or execute other values or commands in order to execute a test case.
* Prefix values
  * Inputs necessary to put the software into the appropriate state to receive the test case values.
> `Prefix values` can be more complicated than just parameters passed or code executed. They can include all sorts of setup activity.
> 
> * the configuration for the server
> * the commands to run it
> * the configuration of the request-sending program
> * the commands needed to run it, etc.

* `Postfix values`
  * Any inputs, values, commands etc that need to be sent to the software after the test case values have been sent.
    * Verification Values : Values needed to see the results of the test case values
    * Exit Commands : Values needed to terminate the program or otherwise return it to a stable state

* `Verification values`
  *  Result retruned from Test Values may not return directly, examples are, write to a file, databases etc.
  *  So wen nned send further commands, paramaters etc to find out what whether the file got written, and what was written to it.

Finally 

* `Exit commands`
* If our software made use of, say, a database – then ‘exit commands’ might include commands needed to restore the database to a known, stable state.


## definitions relevant to testing frameworks
### Software Testability
The degree to which a system or component facilitates the establishment of test criteria and the performance of tests to determine whether those criteria have been met

* how hard it is to find faults in the software
*  Testability is determined by two practical problems
   * How to provide the test values to the software
   * How to observe the results of test execution

### Observability and Controllability
How easy it is to observe the behavior of a program in terms of its outputs, effects on the environment and other hardware and software components

How easy it is to provide a program with the needed inputs, in terms of values, operations, and behaviors
* Observability
  * Software that affects hardware devices, databases, or remote files have low observability
* Controllability
  * Easy to control software with inputs from keyboards
  * Inputs from hardware sensors or distributed software is harder
* Some systems are very easy to observe and control, others less so.

## Unit testing frameworks
As described above testing framework is any set of assumptions, tools etc that assist in executing our test cases. Therefore, Unit testing frameworks are frameworks that just happen to be primarily intended for running unit tests.

* We can actually use JUnit or unittest to test
  * interaction between several methods
  * interaction between several objects
  * setting up several systems/subsystems, and testing interaction between them.
* The framework may not always provide good support for the sort of things we’re doing, as it was set up with a different purpose in mind.
* But we can still use its general features (e.g. report output) regardless.
* We should probably separate these non-unit tests out from our unit tests, though, and document what their purpose is.

## Data-driven unit tests
Problem: Testing a function multiple times with similar values
* How to avoid test code bloat?

Simple example: Adding two numbers
* Adding a given pair of numbers is just like adding any other pair
* You really only want to write one test

Data-driven unit tests call constructor for each logical set of data values
* Same tests are then run on each set of data values

## Testable documentation
To test documentation examples are still correct, not the same as unit testing as not as thorough as unit tests

## Property-based testing
Someime called as generative testing, which data or parameters are generated in a particular way, and the function or method should produce the following results.