# Input Space Partition
## Input Domains
The input domain for a program contains all the possible `Input parameters` to that program, but for even even small programs, the input domain is so large that it might as well be `infinite`.

So, our job is fundamentally about choosing `finite sets` of values from the input domain

#### `Input parameters`
Input parameters include all values that can affect the behaviour of the item being tested. Such as:
* behaviour of a method depends on the values of instance variables – then those instance variables are input parameters.
* system tests of a binary program that reads an input file – then the file constitutes an input parameter

## Characteristics
A characteristic is just some property of an input value which can be used to partition the domain of the value.

For instance, of a list parameter to a method, we might consider the following characteristics:
* Is the list null, yes or no?
  * This partitions the domain into two
* Is the list empty, yes or no?
  * Again, this partitions the domain into two

### Properties of Partitions
If the partitions are not complete or disjoint, that means the partitions have not been considered carefully enough. Then each partitions should be reviewed carefully, like any design attempt - Different alternatives should be considered.

## Steps for Input Domain Modeling
#### 1. Identifying testable functions
Classes have multiple methods or functions, and each methods or functions have one testable function. When we have programs that have complicated characteristics – we ca use UML use cases can be used to design characteristics

Systems of integrated hardware and software components can use devices, operating systems, hardware platforms, browsers, etc

#### 2. Find all the parameters
Methods: Actual method parameters, plus state used

Components: Parameters to methods, plus relevant state

System: All inputs, including files and databases

#### 3. Model the input domain
We need to characterise the input domain, and divide it into partitions – where each partition represents a set of values

This is a creative design step – different test designers might come up with different ways of modelling the input domain

#### 4. choose combinations of values
Each test input has possible values, which we’ve partitioned. But even considering all the combinations of partitions, we end up with a very large number. `Coverage criteria` are criteria for choosing subsets of
combinations.



## Two Approaches to Input Domain Modeling
* `Interface-based approach`
  * Develops characteristics directly from individual input parameters
  * Simplest application
  * Can be partially automated in some situations
* `Functionality-based approach`
  * Develops characteristics from a behavioral view of the program under test
  * Harder to develop – requires more design effort
  * May result in better tests, or fewer tests that are as effective

```Java
public boolean findElement (List list, Object elem)
// Effects:
// if list or elem is null throw NullPointerException
// else return true if elem is in the list, false otherwise
```
### `Interface-Based Approach`
Two parameters : list, element
Characteristics:
* list is null (block1 = true, block2 = false)
* list is empty (block1 = true, block2 = false)

### Functionality-Based
Two parameters : list, element
Characteristics:
* number of occurrences of element in list
  * (0, 1, >1)
* element occurs first in list
  * (true, false)
* element occurs last in list
  * (true, false)

# ISP criteria
#### When to stop testing

How do we know when we have tested enough? When should we
* stop testing? How many tests do we need?
* Some possibilities:
* When all faults have been removed
* When we run out of time
* When continued testing causes no new failures
* When continued testing reveals no new faults
* When we cannot think of any new test cases
* When some specified test coverage level has been attained
* When we reach a point of diminishing returns

Some other possibilities:
* Fault seeding
  * We deliberately implant a certain number of faults in a program. If our tests reveal x% of the implanted faults, we assume they have also only revealed x% of the original faults; and if our tests reveal 100% of the implanted faults, we are more confident that our tests are adequate.
* Mutation testing
  * We mutate parts of our program Overwhelmingly, our new mutated program should be wrong; if no tests identify at as such, we may need more tests.
* Risk-based
  * We identify risks to our project, and put in place strategies to mitigate or reduce those risks. We estimate the effort required for those strategies, and their likely pay-off, and stop when the risk has been reduced to whatever we consider a tolerable level.

## ISP criteria – all combinations
One possibility to check our test will coverage is by: “all combinations” (ACoC).

Then we have 

#tests = p<sub>i</sub> + ... + p<sub>n</sub>

For example partition 1 = 3, partition 2 = 3, partition 3 = 3, partition 4 = 4

The we have 3*3*3*4 = 108 tests

Which too many tests need to cover if partition increases

## ISP criteria – base choice
Base choice criteria recognize that some values are important – they make use of domain knowledge of the program.

For each characteristic, we choose a base choice partition, and construct a base test by using all the base choice values.

Then we construct subsequent tests by holding all but one base choice constant, and varying just one characteristic (using all the partitions for that characteristic)

Considering our myMethod(boolean a, int b, int c) and the partitions we specified, if we made our base choices T, GTZ and EVEN, the required tests would be:

```
(T, GTZ, EVEN) - base choice
(F, GTZ, EVEN) (vary first parameter)
(T, LTZ, EVEN) (vary second parameter)
(T, EQZ, EVEN) (vary second parameter)
(T, GTZ, ODD) (vary third parameter)
```

### How do we choose a `base choice`?
A base choice must be feasible, so we can use the follow criteria

Could be:
* most likely from an end-use point of view
* simplest
* smallest
* first in some ordering

## ISP criteria – multiple base choice
Sometimes there are multiple plausible choices for a base choice.