# Syntax-based testing
## Grammars

```R
num ::= <digit> | <digit> <num>
digit ::= "0"|"1"|"2"|...|"9" |"z"
```

>::=   `is defined as`
>
>|     `or`
>
>"0"   `terminal symbols - smallest, indivisible`
>
>digit `non-terminal symbols`, where non-terminal symbols equals `sequence of terminals and non-terminals`

* `*`(asterisk) - zero or more of the preceding thing
* `+`  - one or more of the preceding thing
* `range number, "3–4"` - number of possible instances of the preceding thing
* `-`(bars) -  or operator
 
## Coverage criteria
```R
expr ::= <id> | <num> | <expr> <op> <expr>
id ::= <letter> | <letter> <id>
num ::= <digit> | <digit> <num>
op ::= "+"|"-"|"*"|"/"
letter ::= "a"|...|"z"
digit ::= "0"|"1"|"2"|...|"9"
```

`terminal symbols` - 4 + 26 + 10 = 10
`non-terminal symbols` - len(expr, id, num, op, letter, digit) = 6
`production rules` - 3 + 2 + 2 + 4 + 26 + 10 = 47

### Terminal Symbol Coverage (TSC)
Test requirement contains each terminal in the grammar, and One test case per terminal.

So in above example `40 test requirements`

### Production Coverage (PDC)
Test requirement contains each production rule in the grammar. And One test case per production (hence `PDC` subsumes `TSC`).

So in above example `47 test requirements`

### Derivation Coverage (DC)
TR contains every possible derivation of the grammar. One test case per derivation required. This methods not practical as tesets  may be infinite. 

When applicable, DC subsumes PDC

## Property-based testing
????TODO

## Mutation testing
Can be considered with the purpose of generating invalid string.

    Note: The mutated string can be invalid or valid

Invalid string must be recognized as errors by the software under test

Example mutation operators:
* Terminal and nonterminal deletion: remove a terminal or nonterminal symbol from a production.
* Terminal and Non-terminal duplication: duplicate a terminal or nonterminal symbol in a production.
* Terminal replacement: replace a terminal by another terminal. 
* Non-terminal replacement


Killed Mutants - We get these when we get different results from the original and mutated versions of the source code.  

### Mutation Coverage (MC)
TR contains exactly one requirement to kill each mutant

### Mutation Production Coverage (MOC)
For each mutation operator, TR contains exactly one requirement to create a mutant using that operator

### Mutation Operator Coverage (MPC)
For each mutation operator, TR contains several requirements to create a mutant that includes every product that can be mutated by that operator

### Mutation example
```python
Stream ::= action*
action ::= actG | actB
actG ::= "G" s n
actB ::= "B" t n
s ::= digit{1-3}
t ::= digit{1-3}
n ::= digit{2} "." digit{2} "." digit{2}
digit ::= "0" | "1" | "2" | "3" | "4" | "5" | "6" | "7" | "8" | "9"
```

1. A ground string:
```
G 23 08.01.90
B 19 06.27.94
```

1. mutation operators, example:
   1. Exchange actG with actB
   2. replace digits with any other possible digit

Using mutation operator coverage (MOC):
```
G 23 08.01.90
B 19 06.27.94
```

mutated to:
```
B 23 08.01.90
B 15 06.27.94

B 22 08.01.90
G 19 06.27.94

G 13 08.01.90
B 11 06.27.94

G 3 3 08.01.90
B 12 06.27.94

```