# Program verification
When doing software engineering – specifying and developing software systems – the activities done can be done with varying levels of mathematical rigor.

For instance, we could write a requirement
* informally, just using natural language, and perhaps tables and diagrams. This is easy, but can be imprecise and ambiguous
* semi-formally, perhaps using occasional mathematical formulas or bits of pseudocode to express what’s required
* formally, mostly using mathematical notation, with a bit of English to clarify what the notation represents. 
  * require more work
  * harder to ensure the notation matches our intuitive idea of what the system should do
  * but has little or no vagueness or ambiguity.

# The Dafny language
As an example of Dafny programming language program verification
``` Java
method Abs(x: int) returns (y: int) {
    if x < 0
        { return -x; }
    else
        { return x; }
}
```

### `postconditions`
```Java
method Abs(x: int) returns (y: int)
    ensures 0 <= y #postconditions
{
    ...
}
```

### `preconditions`
```Java
method AddOne(x: int) returns (y: int)
    requires x > 0
    ensures y > 0
{
    return x + 1;
}
```

# Dafny verification
Dafny will actually reject programs with postconditions it can’t prove are correct. 

A method with no “ensures” specifications has no preconditions, so will always verify.
```
ensures true
```

A programmer calling a method must ensure the preconditions are met.

A programmer writing a method needs to ensure that if the preconditions are already true, the postconditions are met.

``` SQL
IF preconditions, THEN postcondition
```

Thus if prediciton is `false`, either postcondition is `true` or `false`, the program will be verfied.

```Java
// Program will not return a positive value if `x` is negative
method Abs(x: int) returns (y: int)
    requires false // added "requires false" precondition
    ensures 0 <= y
{
    if x < 0
        { return x; } // we removed the minus ("-")
    else
    { return x; }
}
```

## Dafny assertions
```java
method MyMethod()
{
    assert 2 < 3;
}
```
assertions is way of `asking` the Dafny verifier what it knows to be true at any point in the program.

## Dafny verification errors
There are two main reasons you might get a verification error:
1. Firstly, there might be something actually incorrect with your code.
2. Secondly, it might be correct, but the Dafny verifier isn’t `clever` enough to prove that the required properties hold.

## Proving loops correct
``` Java
var i := 0;
while i < n
    invariant 0 <= i
{
    i := i + 1;
}
```

A way to prove an program is correct is by find an invariant inside the loop.

## Sorts of formal methods
`Degree of formality`:
* how formal are the specifications and the system description?
* in natural language (informal), or something more mathematical?

`Degree of automation`:
* the extremes are fully automatic and fully manual
* most computer-aided methods are somewhere in the middle

`Full or partial verification of properties in the specification`

