
## Migration Histroy
In EF Core, when you enable migrations and apply them to your database, EF Core automatically creates a table called "__EFMigrationsHistory" to track the history of migrations applied to the database. This table serves as a record of the migrations that have been executed and helps EF Core keep track of the current state of the database schema.

The `__EFMigrationsHistory` table typically contains the following columns:
1. MigrationId: A unique identifier for each migration. It is usually generated based on the timestamp or migration name.
2. ProductVersion: The version of Entity Framework Core used to apply the migration. This information helps ensure compatibility with future migrations.

`__EFMigrationsHistory` is managed by EF Core and should not be modified manually. However since, the data is stored in database we can manually change the version by alter the data. 

By keeping track of the applied migrations, EF Core can determine the current state of the database schema and apply any pending migrations when necessary. This ensures that your database schema remains synchronized with your application's entity model as it evolves over time.

## Update database
update a database using EFCore-cli by:
1. After schema changes,  use the `dotnet ef migrations add` or `Add-Migration` command to create a new migration. To undo latest migration by `dotnet ef migrations remove` or Remove-Migration

For example, if you want to create a migration named "AddNewColumn", use the following command:
```sh
dotnet ef migrations add AddNewColumn
```
or
```sh
Add-Migration AddNewColumn
```
2. Once the migration is created, use the `dotnet ef database update` or `Update-Database` command to apply the pending migrations.

For example, to apply the latest migration to the database, use the following command:
```sh
dotnet ef database update
```
Or
```sh
Update-Database
```

## Downgrade database
EF Core rollback  database to a previous version by applying older migrations in reverse order.

To downgrade a database using EFCore-cli, follow these steps:
1. Use `dotnet ef migrations list` or `Get-Migrations` command to get the names of the migrations. Select one to roll back
2. [Optional] Generate SQL script for review by `dotnet ef migrations script FROM TO` or `Script-Migration FROM TO` command
3. Rollback Databse Migrations by `dotnet ef database update NAME` or `Update-Database NAME`

For example, to roll back to a migration named "InitialMigration", use the following command:
```sh
dotnet ef database update InitialMigration
```
or
```sh
Update-Database InitialMigration
```

> Note: Downgrading a database can result in **data loss** or **inconsistencies** by remove or modify data that was added by later migrations.
